Many people believe in God, in what sense?
They believe that there must exist a God, a Creator.
She illogicals them to believe this.
Why?
Because of being aware that there is creation.
If the Creator would not exist, no creation would exist.
Why? Because nothing comes from nothing.
This is also why we know that God has always existed.
If there would have been a time when He did not exist,
then nothing would exist today.
The fact that creation exists proves there must be a Creator.
It also shows that God exists from all eternity.
Although with our imperfect human mind, we have a hard time grasping this.
We are the product of His creation.
But is it enough to believe in Him as the Creator?
Because without Creator there could be no creation?
No.
Is it enough for a child to believe He has a Father?
Because without Father He would not exist?
No.
A child should love His Father.
A Father normally loves and cares for His children.
The Creator, our Father, not only cares about His creation,
but He also loves us and cares for us as individuals.
He cares about you.
Jehovah God loves you.
Do you love Him?
Are you a lover of God?
This is not automatic.
The Apostle Paul says in 2 Timothy 3, 4,
that most people in this time of the end would be lovers of pleasures
rather than lovers of God.
Sometimes we may have feelings of worthlessness
and such feelings could dampen our zeal in serving Jehovah.
Dampen our love or even could cause us to stop serving Him.
Therefore we need to build up and deeply our love and trust in Jehovah.
Jehovah loves mankind.
What evidence is there for that?
We see Jehovah's love in nature.
He created numerous trees, plants and flowers so that we can enjoy them.
He created for us not only things that we need to keep living,
but things that impress our hearts with awe and love for God,
the giver of every good gift.
Man is not able to create one single animal or even fruit and flower.
The things God created help us to live and enjoy living for as long as we do.
But Jehovah loves mankind so much that he gave his firstborn spirit son
whom we came to know as Jesus Christ, as ransom for the sins of us imperfect humans,
for those who love Him so they may live and enjoy God's love forever.
Although the first humans rebelled against Jehovah God,
Jehovah knew that there would be many others who would choose to serve Him out of love.
Please turn with me to John chapter 6.
You are listening in to this program is proof not only of your love for Jehovah God and Jesus,
but also of their love for you as an individual.
In John chapter 6, 44, Jesus said,
No man can come to me unless the father who sent me draws him.
The scriptures show that Jehovah has given humans free will.
Everyone has a choice when it comes to serving Him.
God gently draws to Himself those who have a heart that is rightly disposed.
Jehovah does so through the Bible's message and through His Holy Spirit.
How does Jehovah draw us?
The Greek verb rendered draw is used in reference to hauling in a net of fishes.
Does Jehovah drag us against our will, forcing us to serve Him?
No. Jehovah gave us free will so He does not force our heart open.
One scholar puts it this way.
There is no handle on the outside of the door of the human heart.
It must be open from within.
Jehovah searches through the billions of hearts in this world looking for individuals who are inclined toward Him.
When He finds such a person, He responds in a touching way.
Are you such a person?
We trust you are.
Jehovah gently attracts or tugs at the heart of ones who are rightly disposed.
Jehovah does so in two ways through the Bible's message of good news and through His Holy Spirit.
When Jehovah sees a heart that is responsive to Bible truth,
He uses His Spirit to help the individual to grasp and apply that truth in his life.
Without divine help, we could never become genuine followers of Jesus and devoted worshipers of Jehovah.
Jehovah draws people because he sees something good in their heart and cares about them as individuals.
Does knowing that Jehovah cares about His worshipers as individuals move you to want to open the door of your heart and open it wide?
As you watch the following video, notice how a brother named Carlos came to appreciate that Jehovah is the loving father whom he had always yearned for.
When I went through difficult times during my childhood, Jehovah was like my father. He was my refuge.
The first memory I have of my dad is when I went to visit him in the prison where he was being held.
I asked Jehovah so many times for my dad to come back home.
One day, my mom said, Dad's coming home today.
I went to school and when I came back, he was there.
I thought he was finally back for good and that it would be forever.
But soon after that, I heard my mom and my grandmother crying and they started to explain that my dad was back in prison.
From then on, I felt hatred, resentment and anger toward my dad and also towards Jehovah.
I started to take drugs, to leading in moral and violent lifestyle.
One day, a couple of sisters gave me a magazine.
As I was looking through it, I saw the experience of all Dustin.
I began to think about the times during my childhood when I would take refuge in Jehovah and would feel the same way Dustin did.
I would say, Jehovah is there. He hasn't abandoned me. Dustin never doubted Jehovah's love.
Right up into the day he died.
That very night, I prayed to Jehovah.
I asked him to forgive me because it wasn't his fault.
That night, I poured out all my feelings through Jehovah.
That burden that I felt was finally gone.
I felt Jehovah's love every step of the way.
He showed it through the brothers who didn't judge me for what I had done.
It doesn't matter how many problems we have or how far we've drifted away from Jehovah.
He never abandoned us.
Jehovah has lovingly helped many brothers and sisters because of his love for them.
This can reassure you that Jehovah will help you as well because Jehovah loves you too.
Did you notice how Jehovah demonstrated his love for Carlos?
Through his worshipers, Jehovah lovingly cared for this young man.
Please turn with me to Psalm 119.
Jehovah had not forgotten Carlos, even though he had strayed for a time.
This reminds us of the words in Psalm 119 verse 176.
I have strayed like a lost sheep.
Search for your servant, for I have not forgotten your commandments.
There are indications that Psalm 119 may have been written by young Prince Hezekiah.
Hezekiah poured out his heart to Jehovah and Jehovah responded.
Brothers and sisters, please pour out your heart to Jehovah and take note of how he will answer your prayers.
Please turn with me to Ephesians chapter 3.
Jehovah can and will intervene positively in your life.
Notice what it says at Ephesians 3 verse 20.
Now to the one who can, according to his power that is operating in us,
do more than super abundantly beyond all the things we ask or conceive.
The expression, his power that is operating in us, is this not something very encouraging and faith strengthening?
His power is not just operating in us, but operating in us super abundantly.
No, but more than super abundantly beyond what we can envision or comprehend.
He will draw close to you, says James 4 verse 8.
Whether he wrote Psalm 119 or not, Hezekiah strengthened his faith in Jehovah and trusted him.
He did so even though he was surrounded by false worshipers and may have been ridiculed by members of the royal court.
Jehovah blessed Hezekiah.
If you trust Jehovah, he will bless you as well.
With reliance on God, you too can endure trials as integrity keepers.
Apply Bible principles in your life and see how following Jehovah's advice will always work out for your good.
Strong faith in God's love helps us to see beyond our imperfections or negative experiences that we may have had in the past.
We see ourselves the way Jehovah sees us as cherished part of his household.
We are a family member of Jehovah's family.
Notice the encouragement we received, Psalm 119 verse 132.
Faith in God's love gives us the confidence that we need to keep going.
In Psalm 119, verse 32, it says,
I will eagerly pursue the way of your commandments because you may groom for it in my heart.
The footnote says, or possibly you make my heart have the confidence.
We will be able to endure any trial.
Are there things that can separate us from Jehovah's love toward us?
Do you recall what we are told at Romans chapter 8?
Nothing can separate us from Jehovah's love toward us.
Let's read this together in Romans chapter 8 and 35 to 39.
Who will separate us from the love of the Christ?
Will tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or hunger, or nakedness, or danger, or sword?
Just as it is written, for your sake we are being put to death all day long.
We have been accounted as sheep for slaughtering on the contrary.
All these things we are coming off completely victorious through the one who loved us.
For I am convinced that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor governments,
nor things now, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depths, nor any other creation,
will be able to separate us from God's love that is in Christ Jesus, our Lord.
But there are things that can diminish or kill our love for Jehovah, so we need to be careful.
This symposium has reminded us of why we have faith in God's existence, His Word, His moral standards, and His love.
As the world around us grows more hopeless, we are determined to become more and more powerful by faith,
about Abraham, Romans 420 says.
But because of the promise of God, He did not waver in a lack of faith,
but He became powerful by His faith, giving God glory.
Similarly, Jehovah has also given promises to us,
and as He progressively fulfills them, we become more and more powerful by our faith and give glory,
to Jehovah God.